So now that we know that both movements and sensory measurements are uncertain,
how can the Kalman filter help us make better sense of our robot's current state?
The Kalman filter can very quickly develop
a surprisingly accurate estimate of the true value of the variable being measured.
For example, your robot's location in our one dimensional real world.
Unlike other algorithms that require a lot of data to make an estimate,
the Kalman filter is able to do so after just a few sensor measurements.
It does so by using an initial guess and by taking into
account the expected uncertainty of a sensor or movement.
There is another advantageous application of the Kalman filter.
Let's say that your robot is using GPS data to identify its location.
Today's GPS measurements are only accurate to a few meters.
It is possible that by using the GPS alone,
you cannot obtain an accurate enough estimate of your robot's location.
However, if you use additional sensors on board the robot,
you may be able to combine measurements from all
of them to obtain a more accurate estimate.
This is called sensor fusion.
Sensor fusion uses the Kalman filter to calculate
a more accurate estimate using data from multiple sensors.
Once again, the Kalman filter takes into
account the uncertainty of each sensor's measurements.
So whether it's making sense of noisy data from one sensor or from multiple,
the Kalman filter is a very useful algorithm to learn.